README.md, before:

![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/neptunehub/AudioMuse-AI.svg)
![Latest Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/neptunehub/AudioMuse-AI?label=latest-tag)
![Media Server Support: Jellyfin 10.11.3, Navidrome 0.58.0, LMS v3.69.0, Lyrion 9.0.2, Emby 4.9.1.80](https://img.shields.io/badge/Media%20Server-Jellyfin%2010.11.3%2C%20Navidrome%200.58.0%2C%20LMS%20v3.69.0%2C%20Lyrion%209.0.2%2C%20Emby%204.9.1.80-blue?style=flat-square&logo=server&logoColor=white)


# **AudioMuse-AI - Where Music Takes Shape** 

<p align="center">
  <img src="screenshot/AM-AI-MAP.png?raw=true" alt="AudioMuse-AI Logo" width="480">
</p>


AudioMuse-AI is an open-source, Dockerized environment that brings **automatic playlist generation** to your self-hosted music library. Using tools such as [Librosa](https://github.com/librosa/librosa) and [ONNX](https://onnx.ai/), it performs **sonic analysis** on your audio files locally, allowing you to curate playlists for any mood or occasion without relying on external APIs.

Deploy it easily on your local machine with Docker Compose or Podman, or scale it in a Kubernetes cluster (supports **AMD64** and **ARM64**). It integrates with the main music servers' APIs such as [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org), [Navidrome](https://www.navidrome.org/), [LMS](https://github.com/epoupon/lms/tree/master), [Lyrion](https://lyrion.org/), and [Emby](https://emby.media). More integrations may be added in the future.

AudioMuse-AI lets you explore your music library in innovative ways, just **start with an initial analysis**, and you’ll unlock features like:
* **Clustering**: Automatically groups sonically similar songs, creating genre-defying playlists based on the music's actual sound.
* **Instant Playlists**: Simply tell the AI what you want to hear—like "high-tempo, low-energy music" and it will instantly generate a playlist for you.
* **Music Map**: Discover your music collection visually with a vibrant, genre-based 2D map.
* **Playlist from Similar Songs**: Pick a track you love, and AudioMuse-AI will find all the songs in your library that share its sonic signature, creating a new discovery playlist.
* **Song Paths**: Create a seamless listening journey between two songs. AudioMuse-AI finds the perfect tracks to bridge the sonic gap.
* **Sonic Fingerprint**: Generates playlists based on your listening habits, finding tracks similar to what you've been playing most often.
* **Song Alchemy**: Mix your ideal vibe, mark tracks as "ADD" or "SUBTRACT" to get a curated playlist and a 2D preview. Export the final selection directly to your media server.
* **Text Search**: search your song with simple text that can contains mood, instruments and genre like calm piano songs.

More information like [ARCHITECTURE](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md), [ALGORITHM DESCRIPTION](docs/ALGORITHM.md), [DEPLOYMENT STRATEGY](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md), [FAQ](docs/FAQ.md), [GPU DEPLOYMENT](docs/GPU.md), [HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS](docs/HARDWARE.md) and [CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS](docs/PARAMETERS.md) can be found in the [docs folder](docs).

**The full list or AudioMuse-AI related repository are:** 
  > * [AudioMuse-AI](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI): the core application, it run Flask and Worker containers to actually run all the feature;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI Helm Chart](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI-helm): helm chart for easy installation on Kubernetes;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI Plugin for Jellyfin](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/audiomuse-ai-plugin): Jellyfin Plugin;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI Plugin for Navidrome](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI-NV-plugin): Navidrome Plugin;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI MusicServer](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI-MusicServer): Open Subosnic like Music Sever with integrated sonic functionality.

And now just some **NEWS:**
> * Version 0.8.0 finaly out of BETA and with new CLAP model that enable the search of song by text that contains genre, instruments and moods. 

## Disclaimer

**Important:** Despite the similar name, this project (**AudioMuse-AI**) is an independent, community-driven effort. It has no official connection to the website audiomuse.ai.

We are **not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by** the owners of `audiomuse.ai`.

## **Table of Contents**

- [Quick Start Deployment](#quick-start-deployment)
- [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)
- [Docker Image Tagging Strategy](#docker-image-tagging-strategy)
- [Key Technologies](#key-technologies)
- [How To Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Star History](#star-history)

## Quick Start Deployment

Get AudioMuse-AI running in minutes with Docker Compose. 

If you need more deployment example take a look at [DEPLOYMENT](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) page.

For a full list of configuration parameter take a look at [PARAMETERS](docs/PARAMETERS.md) page.

For the architecture design of AudioMuse-AI, take a look to the [ARCHITECTURE](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) page.

**Prerequisites:**
* Docker and Docker Compose installed
* A running media server (Jellyfin, Navidrome, Lyrion, or Emby)
* See [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)

**Steps:**

1. **Create your environment file:**
   ```bash
   cp deployment/.env.example deployment/.env
   ```

2. **Edit `.env` with your media server credentials:**
   
   **For Jellyfin:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=jellyfin
   JELLYFIN_URL=http://your-jellyfin-server:8096
   JELLYFIN_USER_ID=your-user-id
   JELLYFIN_TOKEN=your-api-token
   ```
   
   **For Navidrome:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=navidrome
   NAVIDROME_URL=http://your-navidrome-server:4533
   NAVIDROME_USER=your-username
   NAVIDROME_PASSWORD=your-password
   ```
   
   **For Lyrion:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=lyrion
   LYRION_URL=http://your-lyrion-server:9000
   ```

   **For Emby:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=emby
   EMBY_URL=http://your-emby-server:8096
   EMBY_USER_ID=your-user-id
   EMBY_TOKEN=your-api-token
   ```

3. **Start the services:**
   ```bash
   docker compose -f deployment/docker-compose.yaml up -d
   ```

4. **Access the application:**
   Open your browser at `http://localhost:8000`

5. **Run your first analysis:**
   - Navigate to "Analysis and Clustering" page
   - Click "Start Analysis" to scan your library
   - Wait for completion, then explore features like clustering and music map

**Stopping the services:**
```bash
docker compose -f deployment/docker-compose.yaml down
```

## **Hardware Requirements**

AudioMuse-AI has been tested on:
* **Intel**: HP Mini PC with Intel i5-6500, 16 GB RAM and NVMe SSD
* **ARM**: Raspberry Pi 5, 8 GB RAM and NVMe SSD / Mac Mini M4 16GB / Amphere based VM with 4core 8GB ram

Suggested requirements:
* CPU: 4-core Intel with AVX2 support (usually produced in 2015 or later) or ARM
* 8 GB RAM
* NVME SSD storage

You can check the [Tested Hardware and Configuration](docs/HARDWARE.md) notes to see which hardware has already been validated.

For more information about the GPU deployment requirements have a look to the [GPU](docs/GPU.md) page.

## **Docker Image Tagging Strategy**

Our GitHub Actions workflow automatically builds and publishes Docker images with the following tags:

* **`:latest`**
  Stable build from the **main** branch.
  **Recommended for most users.**

* **`:devel`**
  Development build from the **devel** branch.
  May be unstable — **for testing and development only.**

* **`:vX.Y.Z`** (e.g. `:v1.0.0`, `:v0.1.4-alpha`)
  Immutable images built from **Git release tags**.
  **Ideal for reproducible or pinned deployments.**

* **`-noavx2`** variants
  Experimental images for CPUs **without AVX2 support**, using legacy dependencies.
  **Not recommended** unless required for compatibility.

* **`-nvidia`** variants
  Images that support the use of GPU for both Analysis and Clustering.
  **Not recommended** for old GPU.


## **Key Technologies**

AudioMuse AI is built upon a robust stack of open-source technologies:

* [**Flask:**](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) Provides the lightweight web interface for user interaction and API endpoints.  
* [**Redis Queue (RQ):**](https://redis.io/glossary/redis-queue/) A simple Python library for queueing jobs and processing them in the background with Redis.
* [**Supervisord:**](https://supervisord.org/) Supervisor is a client/server system that allows its users to monitor and control a number of processes on UNIX-like operating systems.
* [**Essentia-tensorflow**](https://essentia.upf.edu/) An open-source library for audio analysis, feature extraction, and music information retrieval. (used only until version v0.5.0-beta)
* [**MusicNN Tensorflow Audio Models from Essentia**](https://essentia.upf.edu/models.html) Leverages pre-trained MusicNN models for feature extraction and prediction. More details and models.
* [**Librosa**](https://github.com/librosa/librosa) Library for audio analysis, feature extraction, and music information retrieval. (used from version v0.6.0-beta)
* [**CLAP (Contrastive Language-Audio Pretraining)**](https://github.com/LAION-AI/CLAP) Neural network for audio-text matching, enabling natural language music search and text-based playlist generation.
* [**ONNX**](https://onnx.ai/) Open Neural Network Exchange format and [ONNX Runtime](https://onnxruntime.ai/) for fast, portable, cross-platform model inference. **(Used from v0.7.0-beta, replaces TensorFlow)**
* [**Tensorflow**](https://www.tensorflow.org/) Platform developed by Google for building, training, and deploying machine learning and deep learning models. **(Used only in versions before v0.7.0-beta)**
* [**scikit-learn**](https://scikit-learn.org/) Utilized for machine learning algorithms:
* [**voyager**](https://github.com/spotify/voyager) Approximate Nearest Neighbors used for the /similarity interface. Used from v0.6.3-beta
* [**PostgreSQL:**](https://www.postgresql.org/) A powerful, open-source relational database used for persisting:  
* [**Ollama**](https://ollama.com/) Enables self-hosting of various open-source Large Language Models (LLMs) for tasks like intelligent playlist naming.
* [**Docker / OCI-compatible Containers**](https://www.docker.com/) – The entire application is packaged as a container, ensuring consistent and portable deployment across environments.

## **How To Contribute**

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome\!  

For more details on how to contribute please follow the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI&type=Timeline)](https://www.star-history.com/#NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI&Timeline)

Commit message:

Update README with docker-compose file details
Added notes about different docker-compose files for advanced deployment.

README.md, after:

![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/neptunehub/AudioMuse-AI.svg)
![Latest Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/neptunehub/AudioMuse-AI?label=latest-tag)
![Media Server Support: Jellyfin 10.11.3, Navidrome 0.58.0, LMS v3.69.0, Lyrion 9.0.2, Emby 4.9.1.80](https://img.shields.io/badge/Media%20Server-Jellyfin%2010.11.3%2C%20Navidrome%200.58.0%2C%20LMS%20v3.69.0%2C%20Lyrion%209.0.2%2C%20Emby%204.9.1.80-blue?style=flat-square&logo=server&logoColor=white)


# **AudioMuse-AI - Where Music Takes Shape** 

<p align="center">
  <img src="screenshot/AM-AI-MAP.png?raw=true" alt="AudioMuse-AI Logo" width="480">
</p>


AudioMuse-AI is an open-source, Dockerized environment that brings **automatic playlist generation** to your self-hosted music library. Using tools such as [Librosa](https://github.com/librosa/librosa) and [ONNX](https://onnx.ai/), it performs **sonic analysis** on your audio files locally, allowing you to curate playlists for any mood or occasion without relying on external APIs.

Deploy it easily on your local machine with Docker Compose or Podman, or scale it in a Kubernetes cluster (supports **AMD64** and **ARM64**). It integrates with the main music servers' APIs such as [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org), [Navidrome](https://www.navidrome.org/), [LMS](https://github.com/epoupon/lms/tree/master), [Lyrion](https://lyrion.org/), and [Emby](https://emby.media). More integrations may be added in the future.

AudioMuse-AI lets you explore your music library in innovative ways, just **start with an initial analysis**, and you’ll unlock features like:
* **Clustering**: Automatically groups sonically similar songs, creating genre-defying playlists based on the music's actual sound.
* **Instant Playlists**: Simply tell the AI what you want to hear—like "high-tempo, low-energy music" and it will instantly generate a playlist for you.
* **Music Map**: Discover your music collection visually with a vibrant, genre-based 2D map.
* **Playlist from Similar Songs**: Pick a track you love, and AudioMuse-AI will find all the songs in your library that share its sonic signature, creating a new discovery playlist.
* **Song Paths**: Create a seamless listening journey between two songs. AudioMuse-AI finds the perfect tracks to bridge the sonic gap.
* **Sonic Fingerprint**: Generates playlists based on your listening habits, finding tracks similar to what you've been playing most often.
* **Song Alchemy**: Mix your ideal vibe, mark tracks as "ADD" or "SUBTRACT" to get a curated playlist and a 2D preview. Export the final selection directly to your media server.
* **Text Search**: search your song with simple text that can contains mood, instruments and genre like calm piano songs.

More information like [ARCHITECTURE](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md), [ALGORITHM DESCRIPTION](docs/ALGORITHM.md), [DEPLOYMENT STRATEGY](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md), [FAQ](docs/FAQ.md), [GPU DEPLOYMENT](docs/GPU.md), [HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS](docs/HARDWARE.md) and [CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS](docs/PARAMETERS.md) can be found in the [docs folder](docs).

**The full list or AudioMuse-AI related repository are:** 
  > * [AudioMuse-AI](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI): the core application, it run Flask and Worker containers to actually run all the feature;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI Helm Chart](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI-helm): helm chart for easy installation on Kubernetes;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI Plugin for Jellyfin](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/audiomuse-ai-plugin): Jellyfin Plugin;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI Plugin for Navidrome](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI-NV-plugin): Navidrome Plugin;
  > * [AudioMuse-AI MusicServer](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI-MusicServer): Open Subosnic like Music Sever with integrated sonic functionality.

And now just some **NEWS:**
> * Version 0.8.0 finaly out of BETA and with new CLAP model that enable the search of song by text that contains genre, instruments and moods. 

## Disclaimer

**Important:** Despite the similar name, this project (**AudioMuse-AI**) is an independent, community-driven effort. It has no official connection to the website audiomuse.ai.

We are **not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by** the owners of `audiomuse.ai`.

## **Table of Contents**

- [Quick Start Deployment](#quick-start-deployment)
- [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)
- [Docker Image Tagging Strategy](#docker-image-tagging-strategy)
- [Key Technologies](#key-technologies)
- [How To Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Star History](#star-history)

## Quick Start Deployment

Get AudioMuse-AI running in minutes with Docker Compose. 

If you need more deployment example take a look at [DEPLOYMENT](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) page.

For a full list of configuration parameter take a look at [PARAMETERS](docs/PARAMETERS.md) page.

For the architecture design of AudioMuse-AI, take a look to the [ARCHITECTURE](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) page.

**Prerequisites:**
* Docker and Docker Compose installed
* A running media server (Jellyfin, Navidrome, Lyrion, or Emby)
* See [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)

**Steps:**

1. **Create your environment file:**
   ```bash
   cp deployment/.env.example deployment/.env
   ```

2. **Edit `.env` with your media server credentials:**
   
   **For Jellyfin:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=jellyfin
   JELLYFIN_URL=http://your-jellyfin-server:8096
   JELLYFIN_USER_ID=your-user-id
   JELLYFIN_TOKEN=your-api-token
   ```
   
   **For Navidrome:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=navidrome
   NAVIDROME_URL=http://your-navidrome-server:4533
   NAVIDROME_USER=your-username
   NAVIDROME_PASSWORD=your-password
   ```
   
   **For Lyrion:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=lyrion
   LYRION_URL=http://your-lyrion-server:9000
   ```

   **For Emby:**
   ```env
   MEDIASERVER_TYPE=emby
   EMBY_URL=http://your-emby-server:8096
   EMBY_USER_ID=your-user-id
   EMBY_TOKEN=your-api-token
   ```

3. **Start the services:**
   ```bash
   docker compose -f deployment/docker-compose.yaml up -d
   ```
> Remember to get the correct version for your Music Server.

> docker-compose.yaml is for Jellyfin.
> You also have docker-compose-navidrome.yaml, docker-compose-lyrion.yaml, dokcer-compose-emby.yaml

> Other example are for advanced deployment.
4. **Access the application:**
   Open your browser at `http://localhost:8000`

5. **Run your first analysis:**
   - Navigate to "Analysis and Clustering" page
   - Click "Start Analysis" to scan your library
   - Wait for completion, then explore features like clustering and music map

**Stopping the services:**
```bash
docker compose -f deployment/docker-compose.yaml down
```

## **Hardware Requirements**

AudioMuse-AI has been tested on:
* **Intel**: HP Mini PC with Intel i5-6500, 16 GB RAM and NVMe SSD
* **ARM**: Raspberry Pi 5, 8 GB RAM and NVMe SSD / Mac Mini M4 16GB / Amphere based VM with 4core 8GB ram

Suggested requirements:
* CPU: 4-core Intel with AVX2 support (usually produced in 2015 or later) or ARM
* 8 GB RAM
* NVME SSD storage

You can check the [Tested Hardware and Configuration](docs/HARDWARE.md) notes to see which hardware has already been validated.

For more information about the GPU deployment requirements have a look to the [GPU](docs/GPU.md) page.

## **Docker Image Tagging Strategy**

Our GitHub Actions workflow automatically builds and publishes Docker images with the following tags:

* **`:latest`**
  Stable build from the **main** branch.
  **Recommended for most users.**

* **`:devel`**
  Development build from the **devel** branch.
  May be unstable — **for testing and development only.**

* **`:vX.Y.Z`** (e.g. `:v1.0.0`, `:v0.1.4-alpha`)
  Immutable images built from **Git release tags**.
  **Ideal for reproducible or pinned deployments.**

* **`-noavx2`** variants
  Experimental images for CPUs **without AVX2 support**, using legacy dependencies.
  **Not recommended** unless required for compatibility.

* **`-nvidia`** variants
  Images that support the use of GPU for both Analysis and Clustering.
  **Not recommended** for old GPU.


## **Key Technologies**

AudioMuse AI is built upon a robust stack of open-source technologies:

* [**Flask:**](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) Provides the lightweight web interface for user interaction and API endpoints.  
* [**Redis Queue (RQ):**](https://redis.io/glossary/redis-queue/) A simple Python library for queueing jobs and processing them in the background with Redis.
* [**Supervisord:**](https://supervisord.org/) Supervisor is a client/server system that allows its users to monitor and control a number of processes on UNIX-like operating systems.
* [**Essentia-tensorflow**](https://essentia.upf.edu/) An open-source library for audio analysis, feature extraction, and music information retrieval. (used only until version v0.5.0-beta)
* [**MusicNN Tensorflow Audio Models from Essentia**](https://essentia.upf.edu/models.html) Leverages pre-trained MusicNN models for feature extraction and prediction. More details and models.
* [**Librosa**](https://github.com/librosa/librosa) Library for audio analysis, feature extraction, and music information retrieval. (used from version v0.6.0-beta)
* [**CLAP (Contrastive Language-Audio Pretraining)**](https://github.com/LAION-AI/CLAP) Neural network for audio-text matching, enabling natural language music search and text-based playlist generation.
* [**ONNX**](https://onnx.ai/) Open Neural Network Exchange format and [ONNX Runtime](https://onnxruntime.ai/) for fast, portable, cross-platform model inference. **(Used from v0.7.0-beta, replaces TensorFlow)**
* [**Tensorflow**](https://www.tensorflow.org/) Platform developed by Google for building, training, and deploying machine learning and deep learning models. **(Used only in versions before v0.7.0-beta)**
* [**scikit-learn**](https://scikit-learn.org/) Utilized for machine learning algorithms:
* [**voyager**](https://github.com/spotify/voyager) Approximate Nearest Neighbors used for the /similarity interface. Used from v0.6.3-beta
* [**PostgreSQL:**](https://www.postgresql.org/) A powerful, open-source relational database used for persisting:  
* [**Ollama**](https://ollama.com/) Enables self-hosting of various open-source Large Language Models (LLMs) for tasks like intelligent playlist naming.
* [**Docker / OCI-compatible Containers**](https://www.docker.com/) – The entire application is packaged as a container, ensuring consistent and portable deployment across environments.

## **How To Contribute**

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome\!  

For more details on how to contribute please follow the [Contributing Guidelines](https://github.com/NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Star History

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI&type=Timeline)](https://www.star-history.com/#NeptuneHub/AudioMuse-AI&Timeline)
